# Impact-of-Natural-Disasters-Based-on-Satellite-Images


The change detection and disaster damage assessment process require huge amount of manual work and labor by satellite imagery analyst. These procedures can take several hours in a situation where time is crucial in saving lives, but a timely change detection can save lives.
Recognizing an opportunity to solve a key analytical problem for the humanitarian assistance and disaster recovery organizations. We tried to develop a solution with the use of deep learning techniques that automatically detect the building structures on the ground and predict the scale of the damage to the building after the natural disaster has occurred. So, We took xBD satellite images dataset which includes pre-and post-disaster images for six different types of disaster and fifteen countries. 
Our model can localize building and classify building damage using pre/post disaster images. We used a U-Net architecture model for localization of buildings and ResNet model for damage classification. The neural network models, ResNet and U-Net based on CNN architecture are used in parallel as components. Our model includes both a network pre-trained on ImageNet weights and an initially untrained network which trains on the features generated by the pre-trained model. These two models – U-Net and ResNet work as simultaneous feature extractors, and we combine their features by concatenating their outputs and feeding the result to a network of several dense layers. U-Net model detects presence of building as an object in an image and ResNet attempts to classify damages with labels ranging from 0 to 3. Masking technique is used which allows buildings (objects) to highlight within an image by removing or blurring the background. It is done on pre-disaster images to detect the buildings. To solve the classification problem, the post disaster images are given as input and polygons are extracted from the images. 
